Hey there, welcome to the Posit Data Science Hangout. I'm Libby Herron, and this is a recording
of our weekly community call that happens every Thursday at 12 p.m. U.S. Eastern Time.
If you are not joining us live, you miss out on the amazing chat that's going on. So find
the link in the description where you can add our call to your calendar and come hang
out with the most supportive, friendly, and funny data community you'll ever experience.
Can't wait to see you there.
I think that with that, I am ready to introduce our featured leader today. We have Dave, Dave
Gruenewald at Centene. Dave, could you introduce yourself, tell us your full long title, what
you do, and something you like to do for fun?
Hey, yeah, sure. It's such an honor to be joining on this channel here on the Hangout.
So yeah, my name is Dave Gruenewald. I am in Oak Park, Illinois, just outside of Chicago.
My title is Senior Director of Data Science at Centene. My focus is specifically on the
Affordable Care Act space, or Obamacare, as others might know it. And yeah, I guess for fun,
I'm always into finding kind of obscure new music or movies. I've lately been picking up
the banjo, so that's been kind of a fun new hobby of mine. And yeah, really looking forward
to all of your questions and just the conversation today.
Yay, and we have actually several people in the Data Science Hangout family that are from Centene.
Javier is here, and his camera is on, so you might be able to see him. Javier is at Centene.
Javier has been here. Catherine Gerton is also at Centene, and she has been a speaker on the
Hangout. I don't know if she's here today. She usually doesn't have camera on, but maybe she's
here. Catherine is here, yay! Okay, Catherine. So, Centene family is here, even though they're all
from different departments, I am totally aware. All right, in order to get us started, Dave,
I would love you to help us build a little context around the type of data that your
teams underneath you use. So, we're all from different industries. We all work with
completely different data types and data sources. Can you give us a little bit of background on that?
Yeah, I don't think we're any exception there. We have a lot of different sources.
So, we are using data that's publicly available from like the government CMS.
We house a lot of internal data on multiple different databases. We have both Snowflake
and Databricks, and we do a lot of our kind of ingestion using kind of RStudio or VS Code,
and then host a lot of that, our data science products, if you will, onto PositConnect. So,
we're kind of living and breathing in this Posit ecosystem, and I think it really does facilitate
the work that we do. You know, I think with any sort of data science work, I've kind of always
viewed it as three different pillars, more or less, where I think the machine learning and
modeling and AI is one of those pillars. But I think equally as important is going to be
kind of the actual data science product, whether that's like a dashboard or a report.
I'm going to call that just like the data science storytelling. And then the final component that
I like to focus on is just process improvement and automation. There's so much that we can do
with code that sometimes it's like, I guess I always refer to it as treadmill work, where you're
kind of sprinting in place, but never really getting progress. And so, a lot of what I like
to focus on is how do we get, how do we automate this treadmill work where we can, so that we can
kind of focus on the actual fun problems that data science can help solution for. Yeah, the fun
problems. And lately I've been sort of like offering up some topics that I know that our
guests like to talk about. And I think that's something really funny from when I was prepping
with you, Dave, was that there are these topics that I was like, oh, these are sort of like
vague general topics. I wonder how Dave is going to talk about them or what he's going to find
exciting about them. And then when I listened to you talk about them, I was so enthralled. I was
like, yes, I am in such agreement with all of these things. Let's talk about this forever. Let's
do a four-hour podcast. So, I want to touch on just a few of those. One of them from Dave was
data science best practices, which is a very broad phrase, right? But he let me know, like,
this is about speaking the same language, the same baseline language. And you said that even if two
R devs or two Python devs are working in the same language, they're going to have different things
that they do, right? That like make it harder for them to work together or for the team to
work together. So, you want to be able to have sort of a unification of standards and formatting
and styles and stuff. I would love to talk about that. Somebody asked Dave a question about that,
or I will. There was also enterprise package development and dashboard development. Like, hey,
maybe developing an internal package for your team or your org sounds like a really big lift
or it sounds really nerve-wracking, but it's a really great thing. And Dave can talk about that
and how it really helps with reproducibility. But the things that I really want to talk about,
one of them was right-sizing development efforts. I am somebody who's going to over-optimize too
early. It's a sickness. And I think that many people in data science want to do that as well.
And Dave can talk about making the right amount of effort for the right projects.
And then the big one, which I know a lot of people want to talk about, is working in a
polyglot team and really developing, managing, facilitating a polyglot team.
All of the different ways that you can work together as an R plus Python or Python plus
something else team. So I'm really excited to talk about all of those. We always wait
just a minute while questions roll in, but we have some questions already. And Zach had asked
one that I will go ahead and ask for him because it's got an asterisk. Thanks, Zach. Which of these
three pillars you mentioned is your personal favorite to work on? Ooh, that's a good one.
I think learning is going to be more associated with the modeling machine learning. I think that
is very fun and it's really cool to make predictions. So I think there's some immediate
gratification with that. The maintenance of those long-term models that are in production
may be a little bit less fun, if I'm being totally honest. And so I think the process
automation is probably more what I lean on because I think any time I'm in a project like that,
I find that there are way more creative opportunities on how to make something work.
And I think what's really neat in that space is being able to figure out what are the right tools
for the job and how do you make sure that you don't over-engineer or under-engineer
a solution there. So I think I lean more towards that. I also think that being in a
rather larger company, there's plenty of opportunity for this type of automation
and just generalized process improvement. So I think that's actually just where I get more of
my long-term satisfaction, but it's really hard to decouple all three because almost every project
touches on at least two, if not all three of those pillars.
Yeah, it's like a stool with three legs. It can't have less than that, fewer than that.
Thank you for the question, Zach. Noor, you asked a question. I feel like Noor asks really great
opening questions and so I end up wanting to throw Noor into the ring early. Noor,
are you available to ask yours live? We have to go find Noor and unmute her. So hold on, Noor.
Hello, here I am entering the ring center stage. That's all the wrestling terminology I know.
So it's more of a broad question, but I know as a data scientist in training slash data scientist,
one of the things that always comes to mind is scope creep. It's like how do you avoid it or
divert it because you're like, oh, if I do this, I can save myself time. Then you're like
encroaching. It's like, this is not the plan at all. So how do you avoid it or divert it,
given your experience, any tips or advice? Yeah, no, that's a great question. Even the
simplest of projects can have scope creep. One of the things that we've done that I think has
helped with that is at the start of any bigger project, we do a lot of our planning in GitLab,
but GitHub also is an option. There's a lot of project planning tools in your version control
platforms. So if you're not using version control, please do it. If you are using it,
please use the planning features. But one of the things that we do with that is we will actually,
I have a template that we use that is basically let's state the problem. Let's state the proposed
solution. Then what are the potential rabbit holes of as you're working on this project,
you will likely come across this issue. Has it already been solved or is it something that we
should just avoid entirely? Then finally, we'll have another section on there called no-goes.
What that is is like, hey, it doesn't matter if somebody asked for this or not. This is totally
out of scope of this project and we're making that known upfront. That could be like, hey,
if we're doing some process automation, that's not a dashboard project. Let's make those two
separate projects. Once we have refined what this storyboard looks like, we'll actually give it in
front of our stakeholders so that they can say, yeah, actually, this seems like a really good
plan. Or actually, what if we pivoted this? Maybe it's not answering the question that we actually
want. I think a lot of those project requests that we get is if you've ever had any experience
with stack overflow, you read the question and then you understand what's the question that
they're actually getting at. I think by doing some project planning upfront, you're able to
better craft of a solution that's like, maybe they didn't ask the question exactly how it should
have been. This is a little bit of an opportunity for discovery without much overhead and also keeps
you on target for what you're going for. I love it. My follow-up question is,
how much of the project should be planning before any code happens? Before any code is typed?
That's a tough question because I've also seen plenty of teams that spend too much time in the
planning phase and not enough time in the doing phase. I don't really have a solid answer of,
oh yeah, you should always spend 10% of your time planning because some projects that are
small end up taking more planning and sometimes big projects are pretty self-explanatory.
I would say never do a project in total isolation if you can avoid it.
By just bouncing ideas off of a colleague or even your stakeholder, I think you're going to
have a better product and a more well-defined scope than just jumping straight into coding.
I'm not an artist, but I would also assume that I'm not going to just get some paint and just
go at it. I would have a plan, I would do a sketch, a mock-up, and I think coding is very
much the same. It's much easier to do planning work than it is to actually put it to code.
I'm going to say more of a skeleton because you don't want to over-engineer it and there's always
going to be some hang-ups or maybe some things take shorter time or more time than expected,
but you should have that roadmap carved out. Now that you have that, it's more of just
putting those thoughts into code rather than coding and figuring out where you're going with it.
I think LLMs have probably changed this development cycle a little bit because the
way that I have always worked and taught as well, before LLMs at least, and still now,
write your script in pseudocode first. You plug your code in later, but write down your plan for
what you're going to do in pseudocode, which is just plain language, comments and stuff,
and go from there. But now with LLMs, do you feel like people are just hopping in and going,
hey, LLM, make me a POC, and then they work from that like it's their blank canvas?
Yeah. I don't know if there's an answer to that.
No. I think that is actually a pretty phenomenal use of AI just to ideate and help lead what
direction you're going in. Yeah.
All right. Well, there's an anonymous question that was along the lines of this that we can
tack on, and it is, do you give them what they say they want, or do you give them what they need?
How do you approach that conversation? That is a very good question. I think it
really depends on your prior relationship with whatever stakeholder you're working with.
If you have that working relationship, obviously, you should try to actually create a solution that
you think is the best solution possible. I mean, really, this feels more like a question
about communication. And while I think the planning phase is important, I think it's also
good to just have some check-ins throughout the process. If you're going to be working for
something, say, for six weeks, it seems kind of crazy to just keep your head down, work on
something, and pour your heart and soul into it, and then at the end of those six weeks realize
it's either not needed anymore or what you built wasn't really answering the question at hand.
And so I do think that you don't need to be over-communicative, but I think just the
occasional check-in on a weekly cadence or bi-weekly cadence to say, hey, this is where
we are, this is where we're heading, is really going to make sure that you're answering those
questions. Are we still going in the right direction? Directionality check. All right.
That was a great question, anonymous asker. Joey, I saw you had a question. Can we help
Joey unmute to ask his question live? Joey Marshall, in case there's more than one Joey.
Hey, Dave. Thanks for hanging out with us. My audio's on, yeah? Yeah, we hear you, Joey.
Thank you. Cool. Perfect. Hey, I'm Joey. I'm a data scientist at the Census Bureau.
You mentioned using a lot of public data in your work. We at the Census Bureau,
we're still here despite kind of a year with some disruption, and we're still innovating,
and we're eager for people to use our data, especially because when people use our data,
including in the private sector, it really demonstrates to everyone how important
official statistics are. I'm wondering what data do you wish existed, like public data,
that doesn't? And it could be anything, like health, demographics, climate. It could be
geospatial data. We want to make stuff that people use, and we are still trying to innovate
with official statistics. So yeah, can you just like sort of dream up? What data do you wish you
had? Yeah, that's a good question that I wish I was way more prepared for. I will say one challenge
that we do have is actual data access. And sometimes that we see, again, not just with any
external vendor, there's not a lot of regulation about kind of that data governance layer. Are the
columns consistently the same? Are the data types the same? Is this being served as an Excel file?
One thing that has been incredibly helpful is when those external data sources are willing
to create like an API access so that we can programmatically get that data.
And so I know I'm not answering your question directly, but I am from my own,
you know, perhaps own interests here, is what we've spent a lot of time on is scraping websites
and downloading it and then doing a lot of data engineering internally. But it would be phenomenal
if that database was like accessible outside of us doing that legwork. And so I, yeah, I don't have
a great, like, feel free to put it in the chat here if anybody does have strong opinions of
missing data elements. But to me, I think one of the things that would really help is just more of
a unified approach to data management. Yeah, so say we all. I don't want to scrape anything. I
want it all completely available via an API. I see a bunch of like nodding heads in there.
Yes, thank you for the great question, Joey. All right, we had one. We had an anonymous question
that was like, hey, you mentioned VS Code in our studio. Why did you not mention Positron? It's
great. I love that this question says I don't work for Posit, but I've been using it for almost a
year now and I love it. I will say a lot of companies are using what they have for an
enterprise tool available. And so maybe they're waiting for Positron to be available. How about
you guys, Dave? Yeah, we currently don't have Positron implemented, but we do have a kind of
centralized resource that hosts our R studio and VS Code and Jupyter notebooks,
kind of all in one unified platform. It's the equivalent of Posit Workbench. And I think that
is so critical if you're a team of more than one, mainly because it's called data science for a
reason. And I'm going to emphasize science. Part of science is reproducibility. And if I'm writing
code and running code on my system, I would expect that you would not need to modify that
code base and still be able to run that code and come to the same conclusions as what I saw.
And so I think having a centralized kind of data development or data science development platform
is kind of critical for any sort of collaboration, even if you're using the same language and you've
already figured out how to work seamlessly as a team. Unless you're working in the exact
same environment, you're going to have a lot of unneeded friction. Yeah. Can we follow this line
of the data science best practices? Let's say I have a team of four devs, and they're all working
in R, but they all come from different backgrounds. Maybe one of them is hardcore tidyverse. Maybe one
of them is hardcore base R. Maybe they're all tidyverse, but they all write in a different
style. How do you unify as a team and make it so that I can always read everybody else's code,
they can always read mine? Yeah. Yeah. It's an ongoing challenge. I think the low hanging fruit
there is just kind of agreeing upon a style, which seems kind of pedantic, but you'd be surprised how
many hot button topics you run into when you do that. But I think the goal there is
anytime that you are reading somebody else's code, you're going to have some unfamiliarity
with what they're doing. Why make it more challenging with it also being an unfamiliar
style or syntax or unique packages that you're not familiar with? And so, I think coming up
with a familiar style guide that you all are comfortable with is a great starting point,
but that's not the end of the conversation. I think it's also what are almost gold carded
packages, if you will, where it's like, yes, of course, we'll use this package. What are some
that you're like, actually, yes, I see the benefits, but let's try to avoid it if we can.
Mainly because while the open source community is amazing at creating new content,
there's also a wide array of how these packages are used and what that like format and syntax
looks like. And so, I think it's a little bit of just refining what are you focusing on,
but the goal here is not to like, I'm not negating the individual, but I should be able to look at
any one of my team members' code and not be able to identify which person wrote it because we're
all in a unified kind of format and style of how we're writing our code. That gets more
challenging when you have R and Python and maybe Julia, if you're a go-getter here. But I think
that within those languages, there's still some familiarity there that like you should adhere to.
Yeah. I saw a question pop up in the chat as you were talking about that that was like,
what if it's R and Python? Is there a unified style guide that's going to work for everybody
in that case? I think that's a lot bigger challenge, but this does lead us into
some sort of like questions about R and Python together and how that works. I know that a lot
of people at Centenews are, but you do have Python users too. Could you talk a little bit about
how that works together? Yeah, absolutely. I mean, I think in this day and age, it's more about
use the tools that you're comfortable and familiar with. I don't really want to prescribe,
no, this has to be in Python, this has to be in R, unless there's an actual platform limitation
that kind of forces our hand there. But where I think that like the expectation that if you're
incoming Python developer or an incoming R developer, you shouldn't be the expectation
that you also are like an expert in the other language that you don't know. I think LLMs are
actually a great example of leveling that playing field of just using it to refactor some of your
code. That's not always an option. And so I think one of the things that's worked out really well
for us is the different types of, I mean, Posit has actually provided a lot of examples of this.
I'm going to talk about Corto, where you can seamlessly run R and Python code kind of in the
same report, being a little bit more language agnostic. So I think that's a great example.
I think another thing that we do a lot of is, again, I'm making up a lot of terms here,
but I'm going to call it a data science checkpoint, where say I'm running a process in R,
and now I've got my output. Let's save it as a parquet file that now R or Python can use.
And so you're kind of, yes, I'm running my process fully in one language, but now I'm saving the
output so that any other language can now use that. And you can host that, say, again, on pins
in Posit Connect or an S3 object, Databricks or Snow. I mean, you have so many different options,
but making sure that your colleagues and the other language can still access that
is kind of important. And then finally, I think APIs are still criminally underutilized
of creating your own REST API and hosting that. And so that way I can run Python code,
even though I'm only an R developer, or I can run a R process that's hosted on, say, a Plumber API,
but being able to access that through Python is kind of a game changer. And then, you know,
going on down that list, there's also reticulate is always an option. I will be honest, that's kind
of always our final process rather than, like, what we start off with. And then I actually just
saw on the Tidyverse blog, there's a Nano Next just was released, and that seems very promising
on, again, just kind of being able to operate with other teams and whatever language they choose.
This is actually something that just came up with our Data Science Hangout crew. Last night, we were
all talking about it. We were all online going, oh, my gosh, have you seen Nano Next? What's
happening? So I feel like it's still so new that we're all, like, reading through the examples and
going, like, oh, I have questions. But let me put something in the chat so that we all know what
we're talking about. Actually, maybe, like, Joey or Javi, do you have the link that you could share
about Nano Next so that other people can read about it? I want to say that at a really high
level, Nano Next is going to be a way to pass information between R and Python not using
reticulate and having it be, like, an open and closed connection. I have a lot of questions
still, but it sounds really, really promising. So everybody go check that out. I was going to
see if maybe Charlie was on the Hangout today in the crowd, but I don't think that he is.
All right. I want to hop over to Slido. Hey, everybody, ask questions in Slido. Don't forget,
Bridget has put the link. There was a question about how to start package development with a team
who are very new to package development. This is a fantastic question. I find package development
inspiring myself. I've taken a workshop on it, but I feel like if I'm on a team of people who
don't have a package already, I would be reticent to, like, raise my hand.
Yeah. I think just thinking back to whenever I first started my data science career,
I kind of always viewed package development as almost these, like, coding gods that are
the purveyors of how code is run and, like, who's pushing the envelope the most.
And I'm not diminishing that. I mean, I still think there's just, like, phenomenal packages
developed out there. But they've also almost, like, Promethean captured the flame and brought
it to us. There's so many tools that make the learning curve of getting started with package
development so easy. If you're in R, you've got dev tools and use this, which do a phenomenal job
of kind of handholding and making sure that you are, like, creating that package skeleton correctly
and how to use documentation. I think it does a really good job of rewarding you for sticking to
those standard conventions without it being, like, you have to hit every single thing perfectly
to have something working. So, like, with all things, let's not start totally complex. Start
with kind of what's code that I just constantly am copying and pasting between projects and how
do I just get that wrapped up into a function so that it's rather than copying and pasting 50 lines
of code, what if I just write a single line of code with three arguments? So, I think if we're
talking R, the R package book that I think we're on the second edition now, if you do nothing else,
just read that one chapter called The Whole Game, and I think that gives you a phenomenal bird's eye
view of what's going on. And then you can use the rest of the chapter as you kind of need to. Again,
this is just, like, if you're really feeling discouraged from starting, that's, like, a really
easy starting point. And then poetry within Python, I think, is just another great framework.
So, yeah. Like, there's options for both. And I think the overhead for poetry is actually pretty
low. So, I would recommend checking that out if you haven't.
Thank you. That's exactly what I was going to say. Wait, it's not just R. You can do the same thing
in Python. Also, I will say, if you have something that you're using over and over again and somebody
else needs to use it over and over again, some, like, really tiny step towards this, like, I'm
going to share my functions with other people, if you have a private repo where you can get on GitHub
and just, like, host a .R or a .py file to share with other people, they can use their raw link
to that file in GitHub to source. So, like, you can literally type in your R code, source, and
then put in the URL to that .R file in GitHub, and you will source the functions that are stored in
that, right? Like, maybe that could get you over the hump of being nervous about it, being, like,
are my things that I'm developing useful to other people? They probably are. And then if people use
them and like them, you know, like, okay, I can go make an R package out of this,
and people will find it useful. I would actually even say a great starting point is creating a
package that uses your company theming. Oh, yeah. That gives you, like, immediate buy-in from your
stakeholders because it's, like, oh, this follows our the same company colors. It has our logo on
it. You know, it's, like, small things like that, but that instantly builds trust with your
stakeholders and makes it feel like it's a more polished, finished product. And, you know, the
stress of writing a theming package is pretty low. So, if you do maybe make a mistake, it's not
going to be, oh, no, but, like, our company's stock is halved now. It's very low stakes,
and I think it's a great exploration of how to actually do package development.
Yeah, I think there was a talk at Pawsikoff in 2023, my friend Camila, who's at DAO. I think
one of her things that she started with was, like, well, I could make a ggplot theme package that
follows DAO's style guides, and that's a great segue into just, like, building tools for your
company. Fantastic. All right, let's head over to Slido. What do we have here? Thank you very
much for that anonymous question. I saw that Marlene asked a question that's very heavy
hitting. We always ask at least one career question, career advice question. Marlene,
would you like to unmute and ask your question, but there are several follow-ons to this,
which are, like, you know, you could also mention as well, especially our sentences.
Sure. Hi, Dave, and feel free to parlay the question as well, because it's not a fun one,
but what's your greatest regret career-wise? Huge caveat, guys. I am a big fan of, like,
we got to where we're supposed to be right now, despite our stumbles and our falls and our
failures, so please don't take this really as a negative thing, but it is nice to look back
sometimes career-wise and say, like, goddammit, if I had done this one thing, right, or if I
hadn't, I don't know, flipped off my boss, whatever that thing is, so it was kind of one of those
framed questions. Thanks, Dave. Yeah, no, that's a great question. I'll give you my totally honest
answer, which is, like, I still really love ecology, and I wish I was in that field,
but unfortunately, like, career and the society we live in, that just wasn't in the cards for me.
So I do kind of, like, still just kind of look out like a kid with his hand on the window
in the rain looking at some ecology work, but I would say advice that I can give rather than,
like, actually, I can't say I'm, like, swimming in regret with career, but one thing that I will say
is that don't, like, do not burn bridges, because it is crazy how often that actually does come into
play. So I actually was at Centene. I left for another, actually, I worked at Posit for a year,
and then I ended up coming back to Centene, and so I think that's a lot of just one of many
examples of how keeping doors open is probably the best thing that you can do for your career.
I love it. Ralph, when Ralph Asher was on, he talked about preserving optionality,
and I think that that really is along these lines, right? Like, it's one of the reasons why,
not just career-wise, but, like, I live in a very inexpensive house in a very inexpensive area,
and I drive a very old car because I am preserving my optionality, because if I lived in a fancy
house in a fancy area with a fancy car, I would not have as many options as I do in life for
making decisions or changes. All right. I'll also add, like, I mean, I was also in a PhD program
that I ended up dropping out. I have no regrets about that. I don't think it was a great fit for
me, and I'm, like, happier with what I'm doing now, and so I know at the time, though, that was
very stressful and, like, felt like a very dramatic decision to be made, and now being years away from
that, it's kind of like, oh, yeah, that was actually the right call, and I'm glad I did.
Yeah. You're not alone. There's many, many people in the data science hangout space who
stopped their PhD or just sort of pivoted or mastered out, like, whatever it is. I considered
a PhD for a while, and I was like, I just don't think that this is for me. Nessa says they dropped
out of a PhD program as well. Yep. I know. There's lots of us. Well, Arsena's had an add-on to this,
which was what about your biggest wins, and he specifically said in your early career.
Yeah. Are there any things that were, like, big wins that led you in the right direction?
Yeah. I think a lot of it was, I mean, I guess, again, speaking from personal experience here,
coming from ecology and then pivoting into data science, knowing it and, like, knowing how I did
a lot of modeling and coding in grad school, it felt like a pretty, like, within reach, but I do
feel like it was a tough kind of, like, career pivot to break into, and so I think a lot of that
was how do I take what I, like, professionally have on my resume and kind of shape that up to
look like, yeah, I am a data scientist. I am capable of doing this work, and so it wasn't
just like, all right, went straight from ecology into data science. I did work in public health for
a little bit at the CDC, and then I worked as a statistician for a children's hospital, and then
slowly but surely that kind of lent itself towards doing more of the work that I actually wanted to
do, and so part of that was taking gigs that maybe I was doing more Excel work, but I was able to
just kind of do coding off to the side for some of those more challenging opportunities, and so I
think it was a little bit of a kind of a juggling act of both doing what was requested of the job
and then making sure that I was doing other parts of my job in the way that I wanted to keep
developing because, you know, I, in some of those roles, I was the only coder on the team, and that
does kind of make it challenging to make sure that coding is a part of your, like, career trajectory,
so I would say that, I know I'm rambling a little bit, but I do think that was
probably the better thing that I've done in my career is actually making sure that I had,
it's not so much show up for the job that you want, but, like, how do you kind of force
your job to grow in what you want to grow in? I love it, and I'm seeing so much
in the chat. I say I love it to every single thing. It's the worst. You guys, give me other things to
say besides I love it. There's lots of conversations in the chat, people raising their hands saying,
hey, I too dropped out of a PhD program. Hey, I too mastered out, and we're talking about how we
need a different word than dropout because it's not a great, it's not a great term. Can people
suggest something else? I think just pivot, and George had said, like, hey, there's that popular
book, Know When to Walk Away, and I know that there are actually some Data Science Hangout
people who have been reading that this year. I have not read it. If you have, let me know if
you like it. I'm a big proponent of walking away and really understanding the sunk cost fallacy as
well. Like, just because you've put a bunch of time into it doesn't mean that you should keep
doing it. Oh, Aaron says, not dropping out, just reallocating your resources. I love that, reallocating
your life resources. Fantastic. All right, well, there was an anonymous question that I wanted to
ask. It's quite long, and it says, I am a chemist who has become a self-taught data scientist,
R, Python, SQL, in an R&D organization with an old-school mindset. When I try to get people to
structure their data, I meet a lot of resistance. How would you recommend building a data science
culture and community from scratch? Yeah, great question. I wish I could say that
challenge goes away. It does not, but I think it's more of,
I think of it more of like a stick-and-carrot approach of, okay, if you were to do this,
and that kind of scratches my back, what is the benefit for you? And I think it's showing them,
like, okay, normally this work takes me 80% of my day is just cleaning that data before I can even
start the analysis. If you are able to organize your data, we can get a lot more productivity.
I can focus more on the exciting projects of actually answering these new questions and
driving the business forward or driving your research forward rather than spending your time
with that data cleaning and cleanup. There'll always be some data cleanup, so let's just
be honest there, but how do we minimize that effort? Because at the end of the day, that's,
I'll classify that as non-value-add work because cleaning data doesn't necessarily
answer any questions. It's just the necessary step before you can start answering questions.
So you always want to minimize what is your non-value-add work, and I think communicating
with that, but also showing them exactly what would be the benefit to them to do this is kind
of your ticket, and that might be received well, that might not, but I think the more that you can
make it clear why they should and make it as easy as possible for them on why they should is just
going to be your best path forward. I'm not going to say I love it.
Thank you. Thank you so much for that question, and we will stop speculating, Mike, in the chat
about who asked that anonymous question. There was a quick question that I thought we could cover
rapid-fire since we only have 12 minutes left, and that is, would you set a specific timeline
for EDA, exploratory analysis, to scope the project better? And that's related to something
that I asked earlier on, which was like how much should be the non-coding part, but this is
actually the coding part, right, where you're exploring. Yeah, I would almost wrap that as kind
of the weird no-man's land between project planning and getting the project work done
because if you're not doing any of that quality control or just data exploration, you're likely
going to just have either invalid answers or you're going to draw conclusions that you shouldn't be
drawing. So, yeah, absolutely, any project that you do, you should be familiar with what are the
nuances and biases of the data that you're working with. I think that really is just going to fit
based on what is the severity and priority of the project that you're working on. Depending on
that answer, it kind of depends on how much time and effort you put up front, but I can't imagine
doing a data science project where you're not also exploring the database for missing values or
weird duplication or what have you. Yeah, my two cents is the whole thing is EDA. There are
things you are not going to figure out about your data until you start modeling it and you're like,
oh wow, wish I had figured this out in EDA, but it turns out modeling the data is a really fantastic
way to find things out about it, right? And then, yeah, you might go on exploratory journeys where
you're like, oh man, I really thought that that variable represented that thing and it turns out
in that database it doesn't. And there's somebody in a back office somewhere who's going, ha ha, yeah,
don't use that variable. That doesn't do what it says it does. And you're just not going to know
until you get through your process. But that is your chance to document that somewhere so that the
person after you doesn't chase that same wild goose, I guess. Thank you so much for that question,
Anonymous Asker. I guess on that note, I would add on that it's probably smart to have some sort
of knowledge share. We have a quarto knowledge share where anytime we find out weird nuances
like that, it just becomes a post in our quarto blog to basically make sure the whole team is
aware, hey, this database is a little bit odd, right? This is how I would recommend doing it.
Or like, hey, we have that variable called that thing, but it doesn't actually do that thing and
it's not that granularity or whatever it is. Or that's an old variable and now we're using this
other one that's not named as intuitively. That happens all the time. A lot of people that use
like Confluence or Wikis and things like that. I'd love to hear if anybody has a solution that
they really like for documentation and stuff because I've never really loved all the ones
I've gotten to use. Arsenis, you had a question. Would you like to unmute and ask that one?
And if I can find you, I will help you unmute as well. Sure. Thanks, Libby. And thanks, Dave,
for joining us today, man. So kind of at the beginning of your talk earlier today, you actually
mentioned something kind of in passing, which was fun projects. You were distinguishing between some
of the different types of projects that you have to do. So I'm wondering if you might define what
that means for you and what you think it means for a team in general and how much so there are
two follow-up questions with this. One of them is how do you determine how much time to allocate
for kind of exploration in those fun projects? And can you share an example of a time when
you kind of went through one of those with your team? Yeah. Yeah. Great, great question. I guess
I will define this more as like, I don't know, there's type one fun, type two fun of like it's
maybe not super exciting in the moment, but it is fun in retrospect. I guess there's also type three
fun, which is like not fun in the moment, wasn't fun in retrospect either. But I would kind of
define this more as, I mean, we talked about resource allocation earlier. This is kind of
like a skill set resource allocation where your projects that you take on, I think you should
always have one project that's playing to your strength, one project that's like maybe a stretch
and you're learning something like completely brand new and like trying to develop a new muscle.
And then one project that maybe isn't necessarily tied directly to business need but like could
be in the future. And I think that like sometimes those end up paying off the most. And so I think
it's less so me being prescriptive of like this is exactly the type of project that you should do
and more so that you kind of have this like variety of projects going on. So that way if
one really kicks up, maybe you can devote more time towards it. If one is maybe like a
little bit dreaded to actually like move forward on, you can have productive procrastination, if
you will, by working on these other like passion projects. One thing that we do on my team is
actually everybody should have a defined passion project where it is kind of created and shaped by
themselves and like exploring new tools that they want. And so one example, I have a team member
that's developing an LLM around well like public information based on earning calls from our
competitors. And so I think that's like kind of a fun project where there's not really like nobody's
really asking for it. I think it's a great time to explore how to use these LLMs and potentially
this could end up being something that's like really useful to interface with. But the expectation
is that it's more about learning the tool than it is about like the end goal there.
Awesome. Thank you for the question. We have a few questions left and we have five minutes left.
Let's see if we can get in at least one more. One moment while I sift through questions.
Here's a super quick one we can do related to our very earlier conversation. Does your team use
DVC or something similar for data version control?
Sorry, DVC. I think I maybe didn't hear that correctly. DVC? DVC, data version control.
I don't know what DVC is. Yeah, we've been more recently exploring within Databricks. We have
like Delta tables which does have kind of some of that baked in capability for versioning.
We've done a lot of work on kind of archiving our own data because we get audited quite regularly.
But I think archiving is kind of a solved for solution. So, rather than us devoting a lot of
time towards managing the archive, let's use the tools that like already have this natively built
in. I also think that GitHub and GitLab both have like large data file structures that you can save
to. For compliance reasons, we haven't really explored that. But yeah, I guess I'll say this
might be a little bit more of a blind spot outside of Delta tables for us. That's okay,
valid question. And anybody in the chat can feel free to throw their answer in as well. I mean,
I raised my hand and said, I don't know what DVC is. I don't know what that is. If you were
in the anonymous asker who asked that, feel free to chime in in the chat and add some context and
stuff for everybody as well. Okay, let's end on this one. We have three minutes left. Can you talk
a bit more about your pivot from academia into data science? What worked well in that transition?
What didn't work so well? Yeah, I think this is, let me first preface this by saying I'm incredibly
grateful for a lot of the opportunities that I was like given. So, I'm not knocking anything.
But I will say that like it was taking a few positions that felt like, you know, kind of
within week one, it's like, oh, wow, I feel like I could have done this years ago rather than like
using an advanced degree for. That's all right. Use that to your advantage. That should give you
free time to like start honing in your craft a little bit more in a professional setting. And so,
I think rather than being bummed out by that, you should be more excited that you now have more free
time to develop in a professional setting that you can now add to your resume. So, I think that
is probably maybe a tough pill to swallow. Maybe that's old antiquated advice now. I'm not really
sure. But that is what worked for me was taking a position to just get your foot in the door and
then kind of climbing from there. Very, very valid. Let's see. We have two minutes left.
And if we want to do one more quick advice type one, this is very present for everybody right
here right now. Having a hard time finding opportunities in data science after master's
completion. Any advice on where to look? Yeah, that is a great, I mean, I feel like that does
like change pretty regularly. LinkedIn used to be a great spot for that. And I think you can
still find opportunities. But, you know, I'll be forthright in saying that, like,
I get so many messages, even when I don't have positions open looking for positions,
that it is hard to kind of stand out. I think things like this are a great way to see what's
out there, connect with people, and actually have more of a personal connection with somebody before
you apply. I think that's like a phenomenal start. I also think conferences, I'll be at the
PositConf here in two weeks. That's actually where I first got my job at Centene, just being totally
forthright there. That's a good opportunity to meet people, see what they're doing. And then
if it's something that you're excited or interested in, you know, give them your contact info.
You never know when those things are going to pan out. I met Centene at the conference.
And then I think it was like five months later, they said, hey, we actually have a position open
that we think you might be interested in. Turns out I was. But again, I think that goes back to
don't burn bridges and just like keep opportunities open. Because it may surprise you when those
actually can kind of come back to you. Right. Yeah. I was just thinking of Catherine at
Centene as well when you said that, because I know from experience that Catherine also got
her job from an experience at PositConf. This is one of those things that I keep
telling people about the Discord server for PositConf as well. It's like just because you're
attending in person doesn't mean you shouldn't get on the Discord server. Go do that. I have
made connections on PositConf Discord servers in the past that have led to my friends getting jobs
that they're still in today. It's absolutely wonderful. Go do it. All right. Well, it's the
top of the hour. I want to thank everybody for hanging out with us and asking such great questions.
We didn't get to all of them. There were some other ones that were a little too long to answer
in the time that we had. But I'm so glad that you all hung out with us. If you would like to save
the chat, if there are some resources, anything that you want to save, you can click the little
three dots in the top right of the chat. And Dave, thank you so much for hanging out with us
today. I hope you had a good time. It was so much fun. Thank you so much for having me. It was
great to meet you and kind of chat here. Thank you. Yeah. Thank you, everybody. And next week,
if you hang out with us, we have Mike Thompson, Data Science Manager at Flatiron Health. If you
would like to join us on our kind of journey, community journey, make friends, make personal
connections in the data science space. Just like Dave said, this is the place to do it. Go connect
with your fellow attendees on LinkedIn. Ask them for Zoom chats and be buddies. All right. I'll see
you in one week here on Zoom. Goodbye, everybody. Have a fantastic rest of your week and weekend.